MAJOR ---  DESCRIPTION ---  SALARY ---  MAJOR_CATEGORY
Athletic Training ---  Athletic training combines the love of sports medicine as well as the science of exercise. The study of athletic training can lead to a career as a certified athletic trainer. Athletic training is not the same thing as personal training. Certified athletic trainers work in universities, high schools, professional sports, clinics, hospitals, performing arts, the military and other settings. The majority of certified athletic trainers go on to pursue a graduate degree. Many of the schools featured offer a 3+2 (Bachelors + Masters Track) for an accelerated professional experience ---  49770
Biology ---  Biology is a field high in demand for many reasons, Due to its diverse nature, the biology graduate can go in many different directions after college. Most fields that biology graduates enter pay well and are constantly in high demand. If you are really serious about majoring in biology, the best step is to look for schools with state of the art laboratories and classrooms as well as healthy internship or co-op opportunities. There are also great student chapters of Professional Biological Associations to join in the biology field. Do so at your earliest chance as they will be a great source of career information, and lasting friendships. ---  78800
Chemistry ---  Chemistry is field that will track the student right into an amazing array of opportunities. Chemistry majors are highly sought after, and highly paid simply because it’s a challenging field with so many complex applications. Internships are a big part of this college major. Look at the CM101 Employer section to get a better understanding of what chemical companies’ do, the types of graduates they hire, and what life is like as a professional chemist. ---  78790
Fisheries and Wildlife Sci ---  The study of Fisheries and Wildlife Science as a college major is best suited for people who have an active interest in the outdoors and life sciences. "Fish Farming" is growing at a tremendous rate, with scores of job and management opportunities. The primary functions of Fishery and Wildlife Science majors include management of conservation areas, enforcement of conservation laws, control of the utilization of natural resources like fisheries, game and wild species managment. Students who genuinely love animals, and want a career woking in lush forests and pristine rivers, should consider this major seriously. ---  63200
Food Science ---  Food Science graduates are in high demand due to the unique nature of the major, and real world business need. In every grocery store, the shelves are lined with products that are unique, healthy, well packaged, and designed for millions to eat. The Food Scientist studies Biology, Chemistry, Business, Design and more. Food technology is the application of food science to the selection, preservation, processing, packaging, distribution, and use of safe food. The average staring salary in the industry is $50,000 and goes up from there. Many Food Science programs boast a 98% placement rate as Food Science is a highly specialized major. Food Scientists regularly partner with entrepreneurs and public health officials on product development and policy initiatives ---  65100
Forest & Resource Mgmt ---  Conservation scientists and foresters manage the use and development of forests, rangelands, and other natural resources. These lands supply wood products, livestock forage, minerals, and water. They serve as sites for recreational activities and provide habitats for wildlife. Some workers advise private landowners on the use and management of their land and may design and implement programs that make the land healthier and more productive. ---  62410
Marine Science ---  Marine Science also called Oceanography , is the branch of Earth science that studies the ocean. It covers a wide range of topics, including marine organisms and ecosystem dynamics ocean currents, waves, and geophysical fluid dynamics plate tectonics and the geology of the sea floor and fluxes of various chemical substances and physical properties within the ocean and across its boundaries. ---  71300
Nursing (RN/BSN) ---  Nursing is by one of the most stable and rewarding of all medical careers. Good nurses are always in high demand, and according to most salary websites make a salary range from $45,000–$85,000 per year on average. The training is hard, but when you’re done you will have a career that will be in demand anywhere in the country. Male nurses are the fastest growing segment in this field and the image of nursing as a women’s’ only field will change dramatically in the near future. Nursing is not for the weak or timid. Dedication is a must. ---  73300
Organic / Urban Farming ---  Organic and Urban Farming, often called "Sustainable Agriculture" has become a fast growing track for students who have a passion for ecology, business, health, and sustainability. The job outlook for agriculture grads has never been better. As technology enables farming to move to urban areas, and the public appetite for healthy food has grown, a whole new sector of the economy has been introduced. Many State Universities as well as Liberal Arts Colleges offer Majors in this area. If you want to take an abandonded city lot and turn it into a profitable community garden, THIS is the major for you! ---  71600
Pharmacy ---  Pharmacy programs use curriculum from Biology, Chemistry, Business, Technology, and others. Pharmacy is very popular with students who enjoy working both in the life sciences, and directly with the public. The newest emerging major in this field is called Pharmaceutical Sciences. This is more concerned with invention and manufacturing of pharmaceuticals, rather than being a track to being a PharmD (Pharmacist). CM101 features some 0-6 and 0-7 programs that track from entry as a freshman to a full PharmD. ---  128900
Physical Ther / Kinesiology ---  Physical Therapy, Kinesiology, and Exercise Science are closely related majors. All three are life sciences that usually lead the graduate to a career as a Doctor of Phyical therapy (DPT), Sports Medicine or "Allied Health" professions.  The study of these majors include biomechanics and orthopedics strength and conditioning sport psychology methods of rehabilitation, such as physical and occupational therapy, and sport and exercise. many of the featured schools have accelerated or 3+3 programs where you can track from BS into a DPT. ---  89900
Physicians Assistant ---  A Physician Assistant is a healthcare professional who practices medicine as a part of a healthcare team with collaborating physicians and other providers. In the United States, PA's are nationally certified and state licensed to practice medicine. PAs are concerned with preventing and treating human illness and injury by providing a broad range of health care services with a collaborating physician. Their scope of practice can vary according to jurisdiction and healthcare setting, some will require a license. Accordingly, their work may include conducting physical exams, ordering and interpreting tests, diagnosing illnesses, developing treatment plans, performing procedures, prescribing medications, advising on preventive health care, and assisting in surgery. ---  112200
Pre - Dental ---  As everyone has teeth, there will always be a need for highly qualified dental students. There are three primary levels of dentistry in the college major, and they all can lead to the next level. “Pre-Dental” is designed to give the student all of the science pre-requisites for a successful entry to dental school. Dental Hygienists earn a full BA, and is its own long term career. Dental Assistants typically earn a certification or an Associates degree. ---  159000
Pre - Medical ---  Pre-Medical ("pre-med") gives students the context and training to go on to full fledged Doctors, Dentists, Pharmacists and much more. Biology and Chemistry are two building block majors that you can find at every major college or university and will also lead to medical school. For our purposes in this channel. we feature 12 specific, direct track, "BS to MD programs" from around the US. These are programs designed to take you from a "1st year "Freshman", all the way to a full MD in 7-8 years. The videos we feature, come from "Schools of Health Sciences", found at many major schools. The medical road is tough - but highly lucrative and rewarding. Being a healer is one of lifes greatest callings. ---  208000
Pre - Veterinary Medicine ---  "Pre-Vet" is usually a term for majoring in "Bio or Chem", available at every university, then going to Veterinary School. Animal Science is the more "Hardcore" major for working with large farm animals (Horses, Pigs, Cows Chickens etc.) on your way to Vet School. Animal Science us usually housed within a "College of Agriculture" at large state flagships. Either Path is good! Some universities offer accelerated 7-year tracks called "BS/DVM Tracks". If you love working with animals, but aren’t ready for the full commitment to Veterinary School, "Vet Tech" is usually an AA Degree found at many community colleges, that will license you to work in Vets offices in a high level support capacity. ---  95000
Education ---  Teaching is an amazing profession. Watch the videos below to really help illustrate what we mean here. Then, see our “learn more” section in education to see how vast the education landscape really is. We at CM101 are in the greater world of education, so its not just about teaching. Many schools offer a five-year track whereby you can attain your bachelor’s degree, as well as your teaching credential as well as your masters’ degree. ---  91000
Emergency Management ---  The Emergency Management Major has become a specialized major in high demand. Emergencies, Disasters, and Catastrophes are commonplace, and require leadership and technical “know how” at the highest levels. With an Emergency Management Degree, students can matriculate to hold high offices in Civil and Municipal “First Response” organizations. Police, Fire, FEMA, The United Nations, The Red Cross and any other organization that deals with crisis management, all seek graduates with this background. ---  74000
English & Writing ---  Being an English or Literature major in college will prepare you for many different careers. A BA in English /Writing is especially useful in Law, Politics, Publishing, and Journalism. If you truly love writing, then the sky is the limit. Look for programs that actively place its students in internships or co-ops with publishers or newspapers. Top students in the 21s century wont just read the old classics they are being prepared to write the new ones. ---  58500
Environmental Science ---  "Rocks for jocks" was the saying a while ago about geology. That was until they went searching for oil, or granite counter tops became a must have for elegant homes. The environmental science major, and the various facets within it, will allow students to better understand how humans act with, and upon, their natural world. Waste Management, Power Generation, Plant Nurseries, Recycling Centers and many other industries hire Environmental Science graduates. It’s an amazing field with endless possibilities. ---  71130
Global Studies & Language ---  Global or International Studies combines learning about various cultures, and languages into one larger track. Wheather your interest is in business, politics, culture or altruism, you'll find global studies highly interesting. Global Studies majors should attain real fluency in a complex foreign language. Graduates normally go on to careers in: Diplomacy, International Trade, NGOs' and Humanitarian Missions. With globalization, comes the need for those who can not only speak a difficult foreign language, but can also feel and understand cultural complexites. ---  55350
History ---  For many, the study of history may seem like just fun thing to study while I college. Many see it simply as a prelude to becoming a lawyer, politician, or something else unrelated. For our purposes, the history channel of College Majors 101 is dedicated to those who want to make an entire career out of being an historian. There are many different avenues for historians, whether it is going to the Masters and PhD level and teaching in a university, or working for corporations like Coca Cola or Wells Fargo as their corporate historian. ---  63000
Human Dev & Family Sci ---  Human Development, Family, Consumer, and Child Sciences are academic disciplines that combines aspects of social and natural science. Family and Child Sciences deal with the relationship between individuals, families, and communities, and the environment in which they live. The Family Science Degree represents many disciplines including consumer science, nutrition, food preparation, parenting, early childhood education, family economics and resource management, human development, interior design, textiles, apparel design, as well as other related subjects. ---  67130
Journalism ---  Watch your favorite news channel or read your favorite newspaper, and you will understand how important this profession is. The college major of Journalism and / or Broadcasting is only for those who wish to find the truth of any given situation. In fact, those who do it well have an opportunity to have the most positive impact on their world. As a true journalist, you will have to be unbiased, unflinching, and realize that everything you say is going to the public for mass consumption. ---  57000
Mathematics ---  The Mathematics major can make you a “Jack/Jill of all trades”. Business, Engineering, Computer Science, Actuarial, Education, Cryptography, you name it. The Applied Math major can go anywhere! Top mathematics schools prepare students for a myriad of high paying careers. It’s a major designed to teach complex mathematical principals that can be applied universally to solve problems in almost any industry. The math major will most likely go on to graduate school. Math majors are considered valuable in almost every field. ---  10500
Non-Profit Management ---  Nonprofit Mgmt is a major that leads students into the world of what are called "Non-Profit" Organizations, like the Red Cross, Green Peace, Habitat for Humanity and the Lumina Foundation are all different forms of "Charitable nonprofits. They generate much of their revenue from grants, charitable contributions, and performing services for governments. Charitable nonprofits are mission-based corporations, formed to benefit the public. There are 10's of thousands of NPOs' nationally that all hire managers and administrators to lead them. The Nonprofit Management major is one of the fastest growing areas of study right now due to the rise in the number of NPOs. ---  67150
Parks & Recreation Mgmt ---  The Parks, Recreation, and Tourism Managment Major is a diverse, fun, and interesting field. Public recreation includes activities that take place at a public park/facility - sports, physical activities, exposure to natural surroundings, arts and culture, to name a few. Recreation supervisors with more specialized responsibilities also may direct special activities or events or oversee a major activity, such as aquatics, gymnastics, or one or more performing arts. Directors of recreation and parks develop and manage comprehensive recreation programs in parks, playgrounds, and other settings. ---  26350
Peace & Conflict Studies & Law ---  Peace and conflict studies is a social science field that identifies and analyses violent and nonviolent behaviours as well as the structural mechanisms attending social conflicts with a view towards understanding those processes which lead to a more desirable human condition. A variation on this, peace studies (irenology), is an interdisciplinary effort aiming at the prevention, de-escalation, and solution of conflicts by peaceful means, thereby seeking 'victory' for all parties involved in the conflict. ---  119970
Philosophy ---  Philosophy is a college major that will not directly lead to “Employment” in the field of Philosophy. However, being a philosophy major will prepare you for almost every career possible. It’s designed not to train you for a specific profession, but to train you to think logically as well as asymmetrically. Most Philosophy majors will go onto graduate school in any number of professions. Philosophy is a great college major for those who seek a traditional liberal arts education and environment. ---  50790
Political Science ---  Political science is the major for the person who wants to make a real difference in his or her world. This discipline is where tomorrow’s governmental leaders are made. It doesn’t matter if you are a conservative or a liberal. What matters is your will to understand the real needs of the people who you will serve while in office, as well as, the real issues that you be called to vote upon. Look for schools where civic involvement is held in high esteem. ---  122750
Psychology / Sociology ---  Learning psychology, sociology, anthropology or any other “social science” will enable you have amazing insight into the human mind and condition. This education will serve you well in both the business and academic worlds. Hands-on research will be a major component of any social science, so be ready to do a good number of surveys. Learning to do complex research is a highly valuable skill in the business or academic world. ---  80220
Womens Studies (+LGBT) ---  Women's studies, also known as feminist studies, is an interdisciplinary academic field which explores politics, society and history from an intersectional, multicultural women's perspective. It critiques and explores societal norms of gender, race, class, sexuality, and other social inequalities. Women’s studies curriculum often encourages students to engage in hands-on activities, including discussion and reflecting on course materials. ---  67150
Accounting ---  Accounting can be divided into several fields including financial accounting, management accounting, auditing, and tax accounting. Accounting information systems are designed to support accounting functions and related activities. Financial accounting focuses on the reporting of an organization's financial information, including the preparation of financial statements, to external users of the information, such as investors, regulators and suppliers, and management accounting focuses on the measurement, analysis and reporting of information for internal use by management. ---  71550
Business - General ---  The Business Major will always be in high demand, but even more so when a specialization is found. Marketing, Accounting, Logistics, Finance, Sales are all involved. Get used to using “Excel” spread sheets, this software will be your staple in the major. A business degree is sought after for many entry level positions. Also, many colleges/universities offer a 5-6 year BA/MBA track that may be well worth the extra time and effort. ---  84410
Construction Management ---  Construction is an extremely complex endeavor. As a construction management major, you will deal with every facet of a construction project. The Construction Management degree includes courses on architecture, labor relations, cost evaluation, materials handling, city planning, blue print reading and more. This is a field that is much more complex than the name may imply. Construction managers often pursue graduate work in Civil Engineering as well. ---  95260
Data Science - Analytics ---  Data science is an interdisciplinary academic field that uses statistics, scientific computing, scientific methods, processes, algorithms and systems to extract or extrapolate knowledge and insights from noisy, structured, and unstructured data. As a data science major, you'll learn how to collect and manage data responsibly and ultimately use it to make informed decisions. ---  113300
Economics (Global) ---  Economics is a social science concerned with the production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services. It studies how individuals, businesses, governments, and nations make choices about how to allocate resources. Economics focuses on the actions of human beings, based on assumptions that humans act with rational behavior, seeking the most optimal level of benefit or utility. The building blocks of economics are the studies of labor and trade. Since there are many possible applications of human labor and many different ways to acquire resources, it is the task of economics to determine which methods yield the best results. ---  105200
Finance & Banking ---  Finance focuses on how individuals and business organizations raise money and capital, and how those resources are allocated among competing investment and consumption opportunities. The field focuses on domestic and international financial economies and the role of financial markets and institutions key in the movement of savings and investment capital from lenders to borrowers. It also deals with how individuals and corporate managers evaluate alternative investment and savings opportunities and how they choose among various financial instruments. ---  120550
Hotel & Resort Mgmt ---  The Hospitality Management Major is one of the most dynamic, forward moving majors offered by universities. For students who are genuinely intrigued by an opulent hotel, a trendy restaurant,  a unique resort, or a mammoth convention hall, this major has everything you seek. As the very name implies, “Hospitality Management” is exactly THAT.  Accounting, Marketing, Sales, Human Resources and other disciplines are all a part of the Hospitality Management Degree. One of the key benefits of this major is that you can work anywhere in the world, and HM Grads are always in high demand. Many featured programs boast a 100% graduate placement rate. ---  54440
Human Resources Mgmt ---  The Bachelor of Science in Human Resource Management will equip students with the necessary skills to successfully manage human capital within organizations. A focused curriculum will cover topics that include building effective teams, compensation, global human resources, personal leadership skills, diversity and inclusion, recruitment, training and development, labor laws, and consulting. ---  76660
Information Systems (MIS) ---  Management Information Systems (MIS) is a major that primarily combines computer science with business intelligence. A good example would be the computer networks in your high school or college. All of those systems are linked, integrated and respond to the needs and desires of the purpose they serve. The first four components (hardware, software, database, and network) make up what is known as the information technology platform. Information systems graduates are in high demand, and the need is ever growing. You'll learn how to make web based applications, smart phone apps, and how the web, phone, credit card processors, printers, etc are all linked. MIS is challenging, but the outcomes are rewarding with high starting salaries for graduates. ---  146360
Insurance & Risk Mgmt ---  Insurance is a product used by almost everyone in the US, not only once, but multiple forms.  Auto, home, life, medical, and commercial are just a few. Insurance is a means of protection from financial loss. It is a form of risk management. If you love helping people, and have a head for business, you can learn to build your own Insurance firm, or work for many national firms in many different capacities. Roles for graduates in Sales, Underwiting, Adjusting and Actuarial are limitless. Many Insurance programs boast a 95-100% placement rate for graduates. Actuarial science is the discipline that applies mathematical and statistical methods to assess risk in insurance, finance and other industries and professions. Actuaries are professionals who are qualified in this field through intense education and experience. In many countries, actuaries must demonstrate their competence by passing a series of thorough professional examinations ---  70020
Marketing & PR ---  Marketing managers estimate the demand for products and services that an organization and its competitors offer. They identify potential markets for the organization’s products. Marketing managers also develop pricing strategies to help organizations maximize their profits and market share while ensuring that the organizations’ customers are satisfied. They work with sales, public relations, and product development staff. For example, a marketing manager may monitor trends that indicate the need for a new product or service. Then he or she may assist in the development of that product or service and to create a marketing plan for it. ---  74245
Public Health Administration ---  Public health professionals work in both the public and private sectors. The Public Health Major is one who enjoys the fields of medicine and science, but also the public policy or political science aspects of the major. With a Public Heath Degree, you will find work in local, state, or federal health departments. The jobs available at health departments range from Food Safety Inspectors to Health Educators from Policy Analysts to Epidemiologists. Other public health professionals will find work in university systems as researchers. ---  100980
Sport Management ---  The Sport Management Major is for people who have a real interest the business of sports. When you go to a football or baseball game, you’ll see a much larger “food chain” around it. You’ll learn the workings of the stadium, concessions, ticketing, marketing, equipment, turf management and every other aspect of the sports or venues you serve. The Sport Management degree will enable you to have a fulfilling career in the sports field without having to be an athlete. ---  54400
Supply Chain (Logistics) ---  In commerce, supply chain management (SCM), is the management of the flow of goods and services, involves the movement and storage of raw materials, of work-in-process inventory, and of finished goods from point of origin to point of consumption. Interconnected or interlinked networks, channels and node businesses combine in the provision of products and services required by end customers in a supply chain. Supply-chain management has been defined as the "design, planning, execution, control, and monitoring of supply chain activities with the objective of creating net value, building a competitive infrastructure, leveraging worldwide logistics, synchronizing supply with demand and measuring performance global. ---  68730
Architecture ---  The Architecture Major is an exacting enterprise. It's the intersection of Engineering and Art. The ability to draw, build, think, calculate, and design are all present and expected. Look at all the buildings in a city, and you'll see layers and time periods of the profession at work. Many Architecture schools offer CO-OP (Work-Study) programs that allow students to work in the field before graduating. Look for programs that suit your ethos and sense of wonder. Architecture is NOT for the faint hearted. You're "All In" or nothing. ---  80750
Arts & Museum Mgmt ---  Arts Administration is the field that concerns business operations around an arts organization. Arts administrators are responsible for facilitating the day-to-day operations of the organization and fulfilling its mission. Arts organizations include professional for-profit entities (e.g. auction houses, art galleries, music companies, etc.) and many smaller professional and non-professional non-profit arts-related organizations (e.g. theaters, museums, symphonies, jazz organizations, opera houses, and ballet companies). ---  49850
Dance ---  From ancient times to the present, dancers have expressed ideas, stories, and rhythm with their bodies. They use a variety of dance forms that allow free movement and self-expression, including classical ballet, modern dance, and culturally specific dance styles. Many dancers combine performance work with teaching or choreography. Dancers perform in a variety of settings, including opera, musical theater, and other musical productions, and may present folk, ethnic, tap, jazz, and other popular kinds of dance. ---  22750
Fashion & Apparel Design ---  To become a successful Apparel Designer, you must work extremely hard. How do you feel about cutting, sewing, and measuring? Before you can even begin to think about "The Runway" and all the glamour that comes with it, you must learn the basic fundamentals of garment construction. Nothing comes free, cheap or easy to those would become the top designers who are featured on the world’s stages. Apparel Designers make clothing for all sizes, ages, genders, and situations. Apparel Designers must become familiar with all types of fabrics, dyes, manufacturing methods and forms of distribution. If you're ready, so are the schools who teach it! ---  48710
Film / Broadcast ---  To become a successful Apparel Designer, you must work extremely hard. How do you feel about cutting, sewing, and measuring? Before you can even begin to think about "The Runway" and all the glamour that comes with it, you must learn the basic fundamentals of garment construction. Nothing comes free, cheap or easy to those would become the top designers who are featured on the world’s stages. Apparel Designers make clothing for all sizes, ages, genders, and situations. Apparel Designers must become familiar with all types of fabrics, dyes, manufacturing methods and forms of distribution. If you're ready, so are the schools who teach it! ---  45250
Fine & Studio Art ---  Stroll the greatest gallery districts in any major city on the planet, and you will find the independent artists who make the great works you pass by. Most of these artists went to art school, and learned from the ground up how to let their visions become reality. Don’t let the competitive nature of the art world intimidate you. If you are truly great, your works will shine through. As with other majors, the quality and scope of a schools actual facilities should be a high priority. ---  48130
Graphic Design ---  Graphic Design is both a calling and a profession. In college, you will have access to highly advanced instruction and software when you major in graphic design. Learning how to use these tools, combined with natural artistic ability will give you a career that has unlimited potential. Truly good programs have modern, “industry current” facilities as well as high post graduation employment rates. Graphic Designers are hired by all forms of industries, so the scope of this profession is unlimited. ---  52210
Industrial / Product Design ---  An industrial designer designed every product you use in your home, office or in school. It’s an amazing field and one that if you go to college and major in it, will allow you to learn the skills to actually make the inventions you think about. Some schools will call it “Product Design”, or be even more specific with titles such as “Furniture” or “Toy design”. Look for programs who participate in design competitions, and have internship or "Co-Op" programs available. ---  68890
Interior Design & Arch ---  Interior designers draw upon many disciplines to enhance the function, safety, and aesthetics of interior spaces. Interior designers are concerned with how different colors, textures, furniture, lighting, and space work together to meet the needs of a building’s occupants. Designers are involved in planning the interior spaces of almost all buildings—offices, airport terminals, theaters, shopping malls, restaurants, hotels, schools, hospitals, and private residences. ---  56040
Landscape Architecture ---  The 21st century landscape architect is the person who can combine the scientific knowledge of botany and horticulture, with the aesthetic intuition of fine art. Forget the “gardener” images. True landscape architects fashion their clients environment to the envy of all who see it. Its not an easy field, but my goodness it’s a beautiful one if you can master the techniques. ---  69360
Music (Instrumental) ---  To go to college and major in music is the dream of students all over the country. Whether you want to play in world class symphonies, Broadway stage productions, a rock n roll band, or be a record company mogul, you can do this when you major in music. The music major is offered at almost every school in the country. Many outstanding programs are in places many people simply do not expect. ---  45250
Theatre (Drama + Musical) ---  Drama is an art form that dates back to the age of ancient Greece. The universities you will view all have outstanding facilities and coaches. You just have the guts to go from an amateur to a professional. Look up the bios of those who are famous on stage or screen and you will find that 95% of them were theatre majors in college. Theatre is a life calling and not a dalliance. If you have the passion you will succeed. ---  45100
Urban & Regional Planning ---  Urban and regional planners develop long- and short-term plans for the use of land and the growth and revitalization of urban, suburban, and rural communities and the region in which they are located. They help local officials alleviate social, economic, and environmental problems by recommending locations for roads, schools, and other infrastructure and suggesting zoning regulations for private property. ---  74350
Web Design & Digital Media ---  Multimedia artists design computer-delivered electronic systems that allow the user to control, combine, and manipulate different types of media, such as text, sound, video, computer graphics, and animation. The most common multimedia machine consists of a personal computer with a sound card, modem, digital speaker unit, and CD-ROM. Interactive multimedia systems under commercial development include cable television services. ---  75270
Aerospace Engineering ---  The aerospace engineering major is concerned with the processes, both analytical and creative, that are involved in the design, manufacture and operation of aerospace vehicles within and beyond planetary atmospheres. A degree in Aerospace Engineering can lead to immense opportunities in many fields.  Aerospace  Engineering Schools will have you making all kinds flight powered vehicles ranging from helicopters and other vertical takeoff aircraft at the low-speed end of the flight spectrum ---  116500
Applied Engineering Tech ---  An engineering technology professional is trained in certain aspects of development and implementation of a respective area of technology. Engineering technology education is even more applied and less theoretical than engineering education, though in a broad sense both have a focus on practical application. Engineering technology professionals often assist engineers but after years of experience, they can also become engineers. Like engineers, areas where engineering technology professionals can work include product design (including improvement), fabrication and testing. Also as with engineers, engineering technology professionals sometimes rise to senior management positions in industry or become entrepreneurs. ---  63800
Astronomy / Physics ---  With humanity moving into space as a new and very real frontier, Astronomers will be in higher demand for many different new technologies. If Astronomy Majors choose to stay in academics, they can count on a great lifestyle that will have you working with the greatest astronomy equipment in the world. When pursuing an astronomy degree, look for programs that have their own observatories, and the most modern equipment ---  122220
Aviation & Aeronautics ---  The Aviation Major is diverse as it also may include Aircraft Maintenance, Airport Logistics, Air Traffic Control, and Unmanned Aerial Systems technology (Drones). As more people take to the sky in private aircraft, learning about the business and complex logistics of aviation is as important as learning to fly or fix the aircraft. With an Aviation Degree, you can work anywhere in the country.  Most major cities have more than one airport so the opportunities are there. ---  121430
Biomedical Engineering ---  The Biomedical Engineering Major is the application of engineering principles and techniques to the medical field. Selecting the right set of Biomedical Engineering schools is important. This field seeks to close the gap between engineering and medicine. It combines the design and problem solving skills of engineering with medical and biological sciences to improve healthcare diagnosis and treatment. The Biomedical Engineering Degree has only recently emerged as its own discipline, compared to many other engineering fields. ---  91410
Chemical Engineering ---  The Chemical Engineering Major is the branch of engineering that deals with the application of physical science (e.g. chemistry and physics), and life sciences (e.g. biology, microbiology and biochemistry) with mathematics, to the process of converting raw materials or chemicals into more useful or valuable forms. Choosing the right Chemical Engineering Schools takes time and research. In addition to producing useful materials, modern chemical engineering is also concerned with pioneering valuable new materials and techniques - such as nanotechnology, fuel cells and biomedical engineering. ---  108770
Civil Engineering ---  Choosing to be a Civil engineering major is for students who want a professional engineering discipline that deals with the design, Civil and maintenance of the physical and naturally built environment, including works such as bridges, roads, canals, dams and buildings. Civil engineering is the oldest engineering discipline after military engineering. Civil Engineering majors compete in many college level competitions, the well know is “Concrete Canoe”.  Top Civil Engineering Schools seek students who are able to co-op (work/study) during their time in college. ---  87060
Computer Science ---  The Computer Science major is behind almost everything electronic that happens in today’s world. A computer Science Degree is highly sought after by “Fortune 500” companies and many others, worldwide. From the internet, to the airline ticket you bought, to graphics software applications, to the medical miracles performed every day. Computer scientists are the people who create the thought processes behind every application used by a computer. Top computer science schools demand the highest amount of focus, students must have the analytical thought process that accounts for every move a piece of software must make. ---  107510
Cyber Security ---  Cybersecurity is the protection of internet-connected systems, including hardware, software and data, from cyberattacks. Cybersecurity is usually based in the Computer Science department. Cybersecurity Majors are in high demand, so make sure to look for paid internships in your college career center begining Junior year. As the cyberthreat landscape continues to grow and emerging threats, such as the internet of things, require hardware and software skills, it is estimated that there are 1 million unfilled cybersecurity jobs worldwide. IT professionals and other computer specialists are needed in security jobs. ---  99730
Electrical Engineering ---  Electrical engineering is a field of engineering that generally deals with the study and application of electricity, electronics and electromagnetism. The Electrical Engineering degree is offered at top electrical engineering schools nationally. The field first became an identifiable occupation in the late nineteenth century after commercialization of the electric telegraph and electrical power supply. Electrical Engineering Majors cover a wide range of subtopics including power, electronics, control systems, signal processing and telecommunications. ---  101250
Energy Science ---  It is no secret that global warming has pushed the need for energy science to an unprecedented new high. The universities you will attend are at the forefront of making new energy technologies. Geo Thermal, Solar, Hydro Electric, Wind, Ocean and even Cooking Oil are apart of this new frontier. The universities will teach you how. Look for schools who participate in competitions dealing with energy science. ---  81940
Game Design & VR + AR ---  The world of video game design is not for those who simply love to play video games. It is a complex science that has become one of the nation’s most popular college majors. VGD combines artistic talent with high mathematics and computer programming ability. The serious designer will look for schools with “industry current” facilities, small classes, high post graduate employment rates and supportive faculty who come from the actual gaming industry ---  86320
Industrial Engineering ---  Industrial engineering is a branch of engineering dealing with the optimization of complex processes or systems. Top Industrial Engineering schools are concerned with teaching the development, improvement, implementation and evaluation of integrated systems of people, money, knowledge, information, equipment, energy, materials, analysis and synthesis, as well as the mathematical, physical and social sciences together with the principles and methods of engineering design to specify, predict, and evaluate the results to be obtained from such systems or processes. ---  88020
Materials Science ---  The Materials science major is an interdisciplinary field applying the properties of matter to various areas of science and engineering. Top material science schools prepare students for a rewarding career making the material we take for granted. This scientific field investigates the relationship between the structure of materials at atomic or molecular scales and their macroscopic properties. It incorporates elements of applied physics and chemistry. ---  93360
Mechanical Engineering ---  A Mechanical Engineering degree is highly sought after by the automobile, motorcycle and machinery making industries. M.E is an engineering discipline that was developed from the application of principles from physics and materials science. Top Mechanical Engineering schools participate in many high level college competitions such as the Baja Race car or Clean Snow Mobile challenge. M.E is the branch of engineering that encompasses the generation and application of heat and mechanical power and the design, production, and use of machines and tools. It is one of the oldest and broadest engineering disciplines. ---  88430
